# Oliandra's Story

Me? Well my name is Oliandra Beaumont d'Cannith, born in the city of Metrol on
the 1st of Olarune 978 YK. My father, Alexandre Beaumont, was the last member
of what was once a proud family in house Cannith. As the owner of a small
factory, he still carried some favor, but whatever influence remained was lost
when he married my mother, Arianna. She was a commoner and a magewright in his
factory, and in his words, she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen.
As I recall, their courtship was brief, and they were married in the small
shrine attached to the workshop not long after they met.


Soon after I was born, in relatively unremarkable circumstances I'm told. My
father used to joke that upon seeing me, he knew immediately I was my mother's
daughter. He was not wrong. I spent almost every waking moment of my childhood
in her workshop, sitting on her lap as she wrote plans and diagrams in her
journal. I was enthralled by all of it; the various mechanical contraptions on
the walls, the endless pages of graphs and equations, and every word she would
say. I learned so much being there. All the while, my father never loved us
any less, he was a most caring and capable provider.


When I was around eight years old, my mother told me it was time I created
something of my own (with her guidance of course). I worked for weeks,
planning and tinkering. In the end, I had built a small music box that played
her favorite tune, and by the gods it was crude. The melody was off beat, and
the sound was more tin than music, but when she opened it, her face drew an
expression I had never seen, and would never see again. It was the most honest
expression of pride I can imagine. When I saw the tears in her eyes, I was
puzzled and asked if I had done something wrong. "No Ollie, not at all. I had
feared that with all you've learned, and all you'd seen, you would create a
weapon. Something to continue the violence of this endless war. But you
didn't, you created a most wonderful, most innocent device. It is pure art,
and I couldn't be more proud of you."


The remainder of my childhood was a more or less constant hum of industry and
invention. As the war progressed, house Cannith demanded more and more
ingenuity. My mother and I were dutiful, if not terribly enthusiastic. When I
was 13 my father, who by this time had been drafted into military service, was
killed on some unimportant battlefield. We were devastated of course, but we
tried to console ourselves with the knowledge that he had died serving his
country and his house. A few weeks later, my dragonmark manifested.
Accompanied by all the usual pomp and ceremony, I officially became a true
member of house Cannith, and so I took the name. Though out of respect for my
father's legacy I kept his name as well. 


His death, and my mark changed everything. My mother found renewed zeal for
her work, and built all manner of weapons and armor. Most didn't go beyond the
drawing board, though it never stopped us from working. We created our fair
share of interesting devices, but I doubt you'd care to hear about that. No,
I'd imagine you want to hear about that day.


It's so strange, to both remember something so vividly and yet have so many
unanswered questions. Parts I can still recall with near perfect clarity, but
others are so foggy as to be little more than educated guesses. I was sitting
in my mother's workshop working on a formula, she was tinkering with a box of
gears. It was, as far as I could tell, a normal afternoon. Then, without
warning, there was an incredible flash of light. It was so bright it seemed to
be penetrating the stone walls. It lasted barely a moment, I was startled and
unharmed but completely confused as to what was happening. I tuned and saw
that my mother was hastily grabbing something from her workbench, clearly she
was more aware of the situation than I was. I can't say how many seconds
passed, it could have been a single breath or an eternity, but what followed
was...well I can't really say. Like the air itself was heavy, a wave of
pressure forcing everything downward...and there was a grey mist, it seemed to
be everywhere. I could hear screaming, at first I thought it was only coming
from outside but my own voice joined the others. The last thing I remember,
was my mother pushing this gauntlet onto my hand and activating a rune on its
surface. The next thing I knew, I was standing in the streets of an unfamiliar
city (later I learned it to be Sharn), smoke and steam still rising from my
skin. I was safe, but I was also alone.


I spent the next few years making a life for myself in Sharn, my abilities as
an artificer made sure I never went hungry. It wasn't long before I found a
few local members of house Cannith, and made some coin working in their
forges. I remember hearing of survivors, refugees from Cyre who had settled in
Breland. I searched the camp for days, hoping to find anyone from my former
home. But there were so few, and fewer still from the capitol. In the end, I
returned to Sharn knowing that everyone I had loved was gone. 


And that brings me to here, and to why I've ended up on this quest. But that
of course is a whole other story...
