# The Journal of Major Wilston Karlak

## 4th of Therendor, 998 YK

### On the Train to Gatherhold

Ain't got many kind words for them Orien crooks, but they do keep the
[trains](https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Lightning_Rail) running on time. Our
Drowish interpreter, one Miss Zarra Blobborion, joined us in Irontown, where
our train arrived at the appointed hour. Had I better knowledge of those
umbral, taciturn Elves, I might say she appeared to me a peculiar and _shifty_
personage. But I confess I know little of their customs -- hence my want of
interpreter -- and so I hold my judgement in reserve. Though I could swear I
felt her hands in my coat when, from the briefest of cat naps, I awoke. If it
was the map she was after, this need only concern me should she try to slip
the party -- whereupon I shall make the most immediate moves to dispatch her.
It seemed expedient, at the time, to brush the incident off, in jest. Play
your suspicions close to your chest, Rosa used to say -- and all the more so
should they prove correct!

It was an earnest pleasure to see Nyf, again, in peacetime, though it's clear
the poor girl, like so many of us, still carries the burdens of war on her
back. I remain in her debt, for what she did for me, back in those accursed
Q'Barran swamplands. I can see that it stings her to recall it. If the grisly
death of her partner -- an affable halfling berk named Karm, I recall --
hadn't miracled a Jorasco mark on her brow, and the healing touch that it
heralds, I'd have wound up as dead as that most unfortunate bard. And to a
_will o'the wisp_, of all preposterous things! What an extraordinarily
embarassing tombstone that would make (Karm forgive me!).

The plane-touched sorcerer, Garxik, remains, to me, an enigma. There's an air
of the accursed to him -- a whiff, perhaps, of Xoriat. It is, in any event, an
Influence which I pray turns out profitable. Wait and see, I suppose, once
again. At present, I know only this: he is a man bedevilled by nightmares
(corrupted emanations from Dal Quor, perhaps?), and has a voracious appetite
for meat. (There will be no shortage of that, where we're going!)

I would like to conclude by saying that the remainder of our two-day journey
to Gatherhold was quiet and uneventful, but fate would have none of it. As it
happens, it turns out, we only narrowly escaped utter obliteration, all thanks
to some poor broken sod who, I gather, had let some insurgent arcanist cabal
turn his own bloody flesh into an eldritch munition! They say this was
accomplished by means of some manner of accursed inscription, tattooed on his
skin. It was only thanks to the sharp eye and quick thinking of my hirelings
that we escaped such a disaster. They threw the mad berk out the window!
Churlish though it may be to complain, however, I must note that this did have
the unpleasant consequence of drawing more attention than I would have liked
to our party. A small price to pay, all told. As recompence for their heroism,
Nyf, Garxik, and Zarra saw to us being moved up to a private car ("private",
that is, in only the loosest of senses -- it was little surprise when Garxik
divined the presence of Orien _recorders_ in our new carriage. "There are eyes
in chandeliers, and the curtains have ears," as the rogues' cant goes).

The entertainment on this train, it must be said, warrants no complaint at
all. Even Nyf's burdens seemed lifted by the
[Sahuagin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sahuagin) dancing girl, and the tunes
that peculiar gnome wrung out of his
[harpsichord](https://youtu.be/oUqhYm5-9ZE). (House Orien's trains betray an
inordinate fondness for the instrument, on the part of their architects, it
must be said. They even thought to include one in our private carriage.) The
[Ettin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ettin_(Dungeons_%26_Dragons)) comedian
(comedians? Does one refer to such a creature in the singular or plural?) was
a source of much good humour as well.

We arrive in Gatherhold tomorrow, whereupon I shall seek to join our fortunes
with a caravan -- under assumed names, of course -- so that we may cross the
Talenta Plains (and, beyond them, the Blade Dessert) assured by the safety of
numbers. We are fortunate to have a mounted halfling ranger to guide us on
this trek, but if the Plains were dangerous _before_ the
[Mourning](https://eberron.fandom.com/wiki/Day_of_Mourning), the monstrosities
that have ventured onto it since have made it inestimably moreso. But even
such eldritch terrors may pale in danger to House Lyrandar's men, should they
have divined the intent of our expedition. We must remain ever vigilant.

